---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Run the Client

This is the component that participates in network validation. Our consensus clients track delegations and stake from our AVS contracts.

Similar to Ethereum, Omni validators run 2 components: our consensus client, `halo`, and an EVM execution client `geth`, `erigon`, `nethermind`, etc. The EVM execution client does not require any modifications.

## Obtain $OMNI

To run the client, you will need **\$OMNI**. You can obtain **\$OMNI** by reaching out to the team.

## Initialize and Run the Client

:::warning Feature not yet enabled

This feature is not yet enabled. Please do not attempt to run it.

:::

After adding the `halo` binary to your system, you can initialize and run the client with the following command:

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="testnet" label="testnet">
```bash
halo init --network testnet
```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="mainnet" label="mainnet">
```bash
halo init --network mainnet
```
   </TabItem>
 </Tabs>

:::tip Using EigenLayer-Generated Private Keys

If you are using the private keys generated by the EigenLayer CLI, you can have `halo` use them by saving them to `<home>/config/*.ecdsa.key.json` and deleting the `init` generated key file found there (`config/priv_validator_key.json`). The `halo` client will automatically pick up these keys and use them for signing transactions.

You will need to pass in your password for that key when you run the client. You can do this by setting the `--eigenlayer-key-password` flag when executing the client's `run` command below.

:::

This command initializes the setup, creating several configuration files required for running the node. You can then run the client with the following command:

```bash
halo run
```
